README.md, before:

## INTRODUCTION

The UI Icons module is a generic icon manager for Drupal.

It aims to seamlessly integrate most third-party icon packs into Drupal.

## INSTALLATION

Install as you would normally install a contributed Drupal module.
See: [Installing Modules](https://www.drupal.org/docs/extending-drupal/installing-modules) for further information.

## USAGE

To add an **Icon Pack**, you need to declare in your **module** or **theme** a
specific file with suffix ***.ui_icons.yml**:

- MY_MODULE_NAME.ui_icons.yml
- MY_THEME_NAME.ui_icons.yml

This module include a lot of examples, it's recommended to use them as a
starting point.

### IMPLEMENTATION

Different submodules provide implementations for Field, Field Link, Menu,
CKEditor, Twig, Render API, Form API and UI Patterns.

#### FIELD UI

Enable `UI Icons Fields` module to add a new field of type **Icon** available
with specific options and formatter.

For integration with field of type **Link**, be sure to select the `Link Icon`
widget and formatter under **Manage form display** and **Manage display**.

For support with [Link Attributes widget](https://www.drupal.org/project/link_attributes),
enable `UI Icons Link Attributes` module.

#### MENU

Enable `UI Icons for Menu` module to be able to add an Icon to a menu item.

After enabling the module, edit a menu item to have access to the Icon
selection.

#### CKEDITOR

Enable the `UI Icons CKEditor 5` module, go to:

- Administration >> Configuration >> Content authoring

Configure your text format to add the `Icon` button and enable the `Embed icon`
filter.

#### UI PATTERNS

Enable the submodule `UI Icons for UI Patterns` to allow usage with
[UI Patterns 1 or 2](https://www.drupal.org/project/ui_patterns).

#### TWIG

`UI Icons` module provide a specific Twig function is available anywhere:

```twig
{{ icon('my_icon_pack_id', 'my_icon_id') }}
```

With settings if needed:

```twig
{{ icon('my_icon_pack_id', 'my_icon_id', {width: 64, height: 64}) }}
```

#### RENDER API

`UI Icons` module provide a `RenderElement` with type: `ui_icon` to allow usage
of an icon with the Drupal Render API.

```php
$build['icon'] = [
  '#type' => 'ui_icon',
  '#icon_pack' => 'my_icon_pack_id',
  '#icon' => 'my_icon_id',
  '#settings' => [
    'width' => 64,
    'height' => 64,
  ],
];
```

Specific properties:

- `#icon_pack`: (string) Icon Pack provider plugin id.
- `#icon`: (string) Id of the icon.
- `#settings`: (array) Settings sent to the inline Twig template.

#### FORM API

`UI Icons` module provide a `FormElement` with type `icon_autocomplete` to be
used with the Drupal Form API.

```php
$form['icon'] = [
  '#type' => 'icon_autocomplete',
  '#title' => $this->t('Select icon'),
  '#default_value' => 'my_icon_pack_id:my_icon_id_default',
  '#allowed_icon_pack' => [
    'my_icon_pack_id',
    'other_icon_pack',
  ],
  '#show_settings' => TRUE,
];
```

Specific properties:

- `#default_value`: (string) Icon value as icon_pack_id:icon_id.
- `#show_settings`: (bool) Enable extractor settings, default FALSE.
- `#default_settings`: (array) Settings for the extractor settings.
- `#settings_title`: (string) Extractor settings details title.
- `#allowed_icon_pack`: (array) Icon pack to limit the selection.
- `#return_id`: (bool) Form return icon id instead of icon object as default.

Some base properties from `FormElementBase`:

- `#description`: (string) Help or description text for the input element.
- `#placeholder`: (string) Placeholder text for the input.
- `#required`: (bool) Whether or not input is required on the element.
- `#size`: (int): Textfield size, default 55.
- `#attributes`: (array) Attributes to the global element.

Submodule `UI Icons Picker` provide a more fancy selector of type `icon_picker`.

### ADD AN ICON PACK

The definition file can one or multiple definitions following this structure:

```yaml
_ICON_PACK_MACHINE_NAME_:
  label: STRING # REQUIRED
  description: STRING # Optional
  enabled: BOOL # Optional
  extractor: PLUGIN_ID # REQUIRED, included: path, svg, svg_sprite
  config:
    sources: ARRAY # REQUIRED for extractors: path, svg, svg_sprite
    # ... Other keys for a custom extractor plugin.
  settings: # Optional, add a form with values for the template
    FORM_KEY:
      KEY: VALUE
    # ... Any other keys
  template: STRING # Optional, Twig template to render the Icon
  library: STRING # Optional, Drupal library machine name
```

The main module provide multiple extractors, you an provide other extractor with
other modules or custom code, @see IconExtractorInterface.

#### CORE EXTRACTORS

Available extractors with this module:

- `path`: icons as images files (png, jpeg...)
- `svg`: icons as svg files
- `svg_sprite`: icons in a svg sprite file

You must provide a `config:sources` array to indicate the physical path(s) to
the icons.

If the path do not start with a slash `/`, it will resolve to the module or
theme, else it will resolve to Drupal web root.

It must include the keyword `{icon_id}` to identify icons name and optionally
`{group}` to group icons. For example:

```yaml
- /libraries/icon_pack/icons/{icon_id}.svg
```

Icons located in the Drupal web root `libraries` folder.

```yaml
- assets/icons/{icon_id}.svg
```

Icons located in the Module or Theme where the *.ui_icons.yml file exist:
`my_module/assets/icons/`

#### OTHER EXTRACTOR

- [Iconify](https://iconify.design) with `UI Icons Iconify API` and
`UI Icons Iconify` example module to show how to declare Iconify collections.

#### TEMPLATE

The key `template` provide a Twig template to render the Icon.
Available variables in the template:

- `source`: The Icon path or url resolved
- `icon_id`: The Icon name extracted
- `icon_label`: The Icon label generated from the icon_id
- `icon_full_id`: The Icon ID as icon_pack_id:icon_id
- `icon_pack_label`: The Icon pack label
- `content`: For some extractors the HTML string content of the icon, used by
  `svg` extractors.
- Any other variable from `settings` definition, see below

#### SETTINGS

The `settings` key allow to define any setting specific to the Icon Pack that
will be generated as a Drupal Form when the Icon is used and pass to the
Twig template.

The format follow the [JSON Schema reference](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/type).

For example a common usage is to include a `size` or `width` and `height` option
to control the icon. For example:

```yaml
settings:
  width:
    title: "Width"
    description: "Set a width for this icon."
    type: "integer"
    default: 40
  height:
    title: "Height"
    description: "Set a height for this icon."
    type: "integer"
    default: 40
```

This will allow the user to fill a `width` and `height` form alongside the Icon
form. And the value will be passed to the `template`, so you can use them:

```twig
<img class="icon icon-{{ icon_id|clean_class }}" src="{{ source }}" width="{{ width|default(24) }}" height="{{ height|default(24) }}">
```

It is highly recommended to provide default in the Twig template as default
values in the `settings` form are just indicative.

## MAINTAINERS

Current maintainers:

- Jean Valverde - [mogtofu33](https://www.drupal.org/u/mogtofu33)
- Florent Torregrosa - [Grimreaper](https://www.drupal.org/user/2388214)
- Pierre Dureau - [pdureau](https://www.drupal.org/user/1903334)

Supporting organizations:

- [Beyris](https://www.drupal.org/beyris) - We are leading impactful open-source
projects and we are providing coding, training, audit and consulting.

Commit message:

Issue #3475202 by mogtofu33, pdureau: Clean code, no default template, better preview

README.md, after:

## INTRODUCTION

The UI Icons module is a generic icon manager for Drupal.

It aims to seamlessly integrate most third-party icon packs into Drupal.

## INSTALLATION

Install as you would normally install a contributed Drupal module.
See: [Installing Modules](https://www.drupal.org/docs/extending-drupal/installing-modules) for further information.

## USAGE

To add an **Icon Pack**, you need to declare in your **module** or **theme** a
specific file with suffix ***.ui_icons.yml**:

- MY_MODULE_NAME.ui_icons.yml
- MY_THEME_NAME.ui_icons.yml

This module include a lot of examples, it's recommended to use them as a
starting point.

### IMPLEMENTATION

Different submodules provide implementations for Field, Field Link, Menu,
CKEditor, Twig, Render API, Form API and UI Patterns.

#### FIELD UI

Enable `UI Icons Fields` module to add a new field of type **Icon** available
with specific options and formatter.

For integration with field of type **Link**, be sure to select the `Link Icon`
widget and formatter under **Manage form display** and **Manage display**.

For support with [Link Attributes widget](https://www.drupal.org/project/link_attributes),
enable `UI Icons Link Attributes` module.

#### MENU

Enable `UI Icons for Menu` module to be able to add an Icon to a menu item.

After enabling the module, edit a menu item to have access to the Icon
selection.

#### CKEDITOR

Enable the `UI Icons CKEditor 5` module, go to:

- Administration >> Configuration >> Content authoring

Configure your text format to add the `Icon` button and enable the `Embed icon`
filter.

#### UI PATTERNS

Enable the submodule `UI Icons for UI Patterns` to allow usage with
[UI Patterns 1 or 2](https://www.drupal.org/project/ui_patterns).

#### TWIG

`UI Icons` module provide a specific Twig function is available anywhere:

```twig
{{ icon('my_icon_pack_id', 'my_icon_id') }}
```

With settings if needed:

```twig
{{ icon('my_icon_pack_id', 'my_icon_id', {size: 64}) }}
```

#### RENDER API

`UI Icons` module provide a `RenderElement` with type: `ui_icon` to allow usage
of an icon with the Drupal Render API.

```php
$build['icon'] = [
  '#type' => 'ui_icon',
  '#icon_pack' => 'my_icon_pack_id',
  '#icon' => 'my_icon_id',
  '#settings' => [
    'size' => 64,
  ],
];
```

Specific properties:

- `#icon_pack`: (string) Icon Pack provider plugin id.
- `#icon`: (string) Id of the icon.
- `#settings`: (array) Settings sent to the inline Twig template.

#### FORM API

`UI Icons` module provide a `FormElement` with type `icon_autocomplete` to be
used with the Drupal Form API.

```php
$form['icon'] = [
  '#type' => 'icon_autocomplete',
  '#title' => $this->t('Select icon'),
  '#default_value' => 'my_icon_pack_id:my_icon_id_default',
  '#allowed_icon_pack' => [
    'my_icon_pack_id',
    'other_icon_pack',
  ],
  '#show_settings' => TRUE,
];
```

Specific properties:

- `#default_value`: (string) Icon value as icon_pack_id:icon_id.
- `#show_settings`: (bool) Enable extractor settings, default FALSE.
- `#default_settings`: (array) Settings for the extractor settings.
- `#settings_title`: (string) Extractor settings details title.
- `#allowed_icon_pack`: (array) Icon pack to limit the selection.
- `#return_id`: (bool) Form return icon id instead of icon object as default.

Some base properties from `FormElementBase`:

- `#description`: (string) Help or description text for the input element.
- `#placeholder`: (string) Placeholder text for the input.
- `#required`: (bool) Whether or not input is required on the element.
- `#size`: (int): Textfield size, default 55.
- `#attributes`: (array) Attributes to the global element.

Submodule `UI Icons Picker` provide a more fancy selector of type `icon_picker`.

### ADD AN ICON PACK

The definition file can one or multiple definitions following this structure:

```yaml
_ICON_PACK_MACHINE_NAME_:
  label: STRING # REQUIRED
  description: STRING # Optional
  enabled: BOOL # Optional
  extractor: PLUGIN_ID # REQUIRED, included: path, svg, svg_sprite
  config:
    sources: ARRAY # REQUIRED for extractors: path, svg, svg_sprite
    # ... Other keys for a custom extractor plugin.
  settings: # Optional, add a form with values for the template
    FORM_KEY:
      KEY: VALUE
    # ... Any other keys
  template: STRING # Optional, Twig template to render the Icon
  library: STRING # Optional, Drupal library machine name
```

The main module provide multiple extractors, you an provide other extractor with
other modules or custom code, @see IconExtractorInterface.

#### CORE EXTRACTORS

Available extractors with this module:

- `path`: icons as images files (png, jpeg...)
- `svg`: icons as svg files
- `svg_sprite`: icons in a svg sprite file

You must provide a `config:sources` array to indicate the physical path(s) to
the icons.

If the path do not start with a slash `/`, it will resolve to the module or
theme, else it will resolve to Drupal web root.

It must include the keyword `{icon_id}` to identify icons name and optionally
`{group}` to group icons. For example:

```yaml
- /libraries/icon_pack/icons/{icon_id}.svg
```

Icons located in the Drupal web root `libraries` folder.

```yaml
- assets/icons/{icon_id}.svg
```

Icons located in the Module or Theme where the *.ui_icons.yml file exist:
`my_module/assets/icons/`

#### OTHER EXTRACTOR

- [Iconify](https://iconify.design) with `UI Icons Iconify API` and
`UI Icons Iconify` example module to show how to declare Iconify collections.

#### TEMPLATE

The key `template` provide a Twig template to render the Icon.
Available variables in the template:

- `source`: The Icon path or url resolved
- `icon_id`: The Icon name extracted
- Any other variable from `settings` definition, see below

#### SETTINGS

The `settings` key allow to define any setting specific to the Icon Pack that
will be generated as a Drupal Form when the Icon is used and pass to the
Twig template.

The format follow the [JSON Schema reference](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/type).

For example a common usage is to include a `size` or `width` and `height` option
to control the icon. For example:

```yaml
settings:
  size:
    title: "Size"
    description: "Set a size for this icon."
    type: "integer"
    default: 40
```

This will allow the user to fill a `size` form alongside the Icon form. And the
value will be passed to the `template`, so you can use them:

```twig
<img class="icon icon-{{ icon_id|clean_class }}" src="{{ source }}" width="{{ size|default(24) }}" height="{{ size|default(24) }}">
```

It is highly recommended to provide default in the Twig template as default
values in the `settings` form are just indicative.

## MAINTAINERS

Current maintainers:

- Jean Valverde - [mogtofu33](https://www.drupal.org/u/mogtofu33)
- Florent Torregrosa - [Grimreaper](https://www.drupal.org/user/2388214)
- Pierre Dureau - [pdureau](https://www.drupal.org/user/1903334)

Supporting organizations:

- [Beyris](https://www.drupal.org/beyris) - We are leading impactful open-source
projects and we are providing coding, training, audit and consulting.
